---
title: You Aren't What You Do
date: 2022-03-22
draft: false
---

I was chatting with a friend about this the other day, and it gave me the idea
for this post. It's sort of a personal letter to myself, but it may be of use
to others.

What people do is one of the most common traits with which they identify.
Identification with a profession is taught to children very early on through
the age old question &ldquo;What do you want to be when you grow up?&rdquo;.
As kids grow into somewhat-jaded-angsty-teens, the toils of school or an
unfulfilling job are likely to cause identification with activities and
passions, external to their ordinary routine, such as music, drawing,
skateboarding, video games, studying obscure political theories etc.

This is usually seen as harmless (especially compared to other things people
might identify with). However, I would argue the opposite, here are some
reasons why.

## Fragility of Self

If your job defines you, what happens when you're laid off, or your company
goes bankrupt? What about if you identify with playing the piano, and suddenly
develop arthritis?

&ldquo;But Jo√£o&rdquo; you exclaim &ldquo;[_insert random activity_] is my
life, that couldn't possibly happen to me!&rdquo;. This made up answer is
obviously ridiculous, but it was chosen to show that a person who has tied
their identity to their occupation becomes intentionally blind to the
possibility of losing the ability to do it, because finding something else
would completely uproot their life&#8212;which will actually happen if they
lose said ability.

## Social Isolation

When you do basically nothing else outside your little niche, it becomes very
difficult to have a conversation someone. Quite frankly, the average person
doesn't really care about the memory allocator you're writing, or the
intricacies of Austrian Economic theory you've spent countless hours studying.
You may tell yourself that normal people are just boring or stupid, but that
kind of attitude just leaves you incredibly lonely, or with a social circle
with whom your only connection is this one super specific thing&#8212;probably
both.

## Snobbery

Lastly, this kind of identification is likely to turn you into an arrogant,
sneering individual, particularly towards others in your domain. This happens
because viewing yourself in terms of your skill at a particular activity makes
any indication of _lack of skill_ extremely threatening. Such indication may
come from seeing others more skilled than you, but also from equally skilled
people that highlight the fact that you're not as good as you think.

This will cause you to be resentful, look down upon people to feel better,
dismiss peers because their success damages your self image and just be an
overall stuck up snob.

## Just Take it Easy

None of this is to say you shouldn't do things you deeply enjoy and really
dedicate yourself to doing them well, just don't make the mistake of believing
those things are somehow _you_. &ldquo;_You're so much more than that_&rdquo;
sounds kinda cringe but it's true. You shouldn't let yourself become
pigeon-holed into one facet of life, make the effort to venture outside your
comfort zone and pursue different things!

Always remember: _stuff you do_ is just that, _stuff you do_, and nothing else.
